
   Copyright (c) 2003 Red Hat, Inc.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

Hardware Requirements

   The following information represents the minimum hardware requirements
   necessary to successfully install Red Hat Linux 9:

   CPU:

   - Minimum: Pentium-class

   - Recommended for text-mode: 200 MHz Pentium-class or better

   - Recommended for graphical: 400 MHz Pentium II or better

   Hard Disk Space (NOTE: Additional space will be required for user data):

   - Custom Installation (minimum): 475MB

   - Server (minimum): 850MB

   - Personal Desktop: 1.7GB

   - Workstation: 2.1GB

   - Custom Installation (everything): 5.0GB

   Memory:

   - Minimum for text-mode: 64MB

   - Minimum for graphical: 128MB

   - Recommended for graphical: 192MB

   Note that the compatibility/availability of other hardware components
   (such as video and network cards) may be required for specific
   installation modes and/or post-installation usage. For more information
   about hardware compatibility, see the Red Hat Linux Hardware Compatibility
   List at http://hardware.redhat.com/hcl/

Installation-Related Notes

   This section outlines those issues that are related to Anaconda (the Red
   Hat Linux installation program) and installing Red Hat Linux 9 in
   general.

     o The Red Hat Linux installation program has the ability to test the
       integrity of the installation media. It works with the CD, DVD, hard
       drive ISO, and NFS ISO installation methods. Red Hat recommends that
       you test all installation media before starting the installation
       process, and before reporting any installation-related bugs (many of
       the bugs reported are actually due to improperly-burned CDs). To use
       this test, type linux mediacheck at the boot: prompt.

     o While most present-day computers are able to start the installation
       process by booting directly from the first Red Hat Linux distribution
       CD, some hardware configurations require the use of a boot diskette.
       If your hardware requires a boot diskette, you should be aware of the
       following change.

       Red Hat Linux 9 uses a different boot diskette layout than
       previous releases of Red Hat Linux. There is now a single boot
       diskette image file (bootdisk.img) that is used to boot all systems
       requiring a boot diskette.

       If you are performing anything other than an installation from an IDE
       or USB device, you will be asked to insert a driver diskette created
       from one of the following image files:

       - drvnet.img - For network installations

       - drvblock.img - For SCSI installations

       - pcmciadd.img - For PCMCIA installations

       As with previous releases of Red Hat Linux, these image files can be
       found in the images/ directory on the first installation CD.

     o Also in the images/ directory is the boot.iso file. This file is an
       ISO image that can be used to boot the Red Hat Linux installation
       program. It is a handy way to start network-based installations
       without having to use multiple diskettes. To use boot.iso, your
       computer must be able to boot from its CD-ROM drive, and its BIOS
       settings must be configured to do so. You must then burn boot.iso onto
       a recordable/rewriteable CD-ROM.

     o The rescue mode environment (accessed by booting with the "linux
       rescue" boot-time command) has been enhanced. Numerous requested
       utilities have been added, and there is now support for activating
       network interfaces. Commands needed for SCSI tape support are also
       available. Please test this environment and send us your feedback.

       If you chose to mount an existing installation in rescue mode and you
       have man pages installed on that existing installation, the man
       command will work while in rescue mode.

     o The Red Hat Linux installation program now detects existing Red Hat
       products on your system, and will prompt you to select the product you
       would like to upgrade. You will also have the option of performing a
       complete re-installation of the system instead of upgrading. Please
       report any problems you may experience with this new feature.

       If the contents of your /etc/redhat-release file has been changed from
       the default, your Red Hat Linux installation may not be found when
       attempting an upgrade to Red Hat Linux 9.

       You can relax some of the checks against this file by entering the
       following at the boot: prompt:

       linux upgradeany

       Use the upgradeany option only if your existing Red Hat Linux
       installation was not detected.

     o isolinux is now used for booting the Red Hat Linux installation CD. If
       you have problems booting from the CD, you can write the
       images/bootdisk.img image to a diskette according to the directions in
       the Red Hat Linux Installation Guide.

     o During a graphical installation, you can now press SHIFT-Print Screen
       and a screenshot of the current installation screen will be taken.
       These are stored in the following directory:

       /root/anaconda-screenshots/

       The screenshots can be accessed once the newly-installed system is
       rebooted.

     o The parted disk partition manipulation program has been upgraded to
       version 1.6.

     o Users of Red Hat Linux 6.2 that want to upgrade their system to Red
       Hat Linux 9 must first have all errata updates applied before
       starting the upgrade process. The most straightforward way to
       accomplish this is to use Red Hat Network. A Red Hat Linux 6.2 system
       that is not completely up-to-date will not upgrade successfully to Red
       Hat Linux 9.

     o Text mode installations using a serial terminal work best when the
       terminal supports UTF-8. Under UNIX and Linux, Kermit supports UTF-8.
       For Windows, Kermit '95 works well. Non-UTF-8 capable terminals will
       work as long as only English is used during installation. An enhanced
       serial display can be used by passing "utf8" as a boot-time option to
       the installation program. For example:

       linux console=ttyS0 utf8

General Notes

   This section describes post-installation issues.

     o There have been issues observed when upgrading Red Hat Linux 6.<x>,
       7.<x>, 8.0, and 9 systems running Ximian GNOME. The issue is
       caused by version overlap between the official Red Hat Linux RPMs and
       the Ximian RPMs. This configuration is not supported by Red Hat. You
       have several choices in resolving this issue:

       1) You may remove Ximian GNOME from your Red Hat Linux system prior to
       upgrading Red Hat Linux.

       2) You may upgrade Red Hat Linux, and then immediately reinstall
       Ximian GNOME.

       3) You may upgrade Red Hat Linux, and then immediately remove all
       remaining Ximian RPMs, and replace them with the corresponding Red Hat
       Linux RPMs.

       You must resolve the version overlap using one of the above choices.
       Failure to do so will result in an unstable GNOME configuration.

     o There has been some confusion regarding font-related issues under the
       X Window System in recent versions of Red Hat Linux. At the present
       time, there are two font subsystems, each with different
       characteristics:

       - The original (15+ year old) subsystem is referred to as the "core X
       font subsystem". Fonts rendered by this subsystem are not
       anti-aliased, are handled by the X server, and have names like:

       -misc-fixed-medium-r-normal--10-100-75-75-c-60-iso8859-1

       The newer font subsystem is known as "fontconfig", and allows
       applications direct access to the font files. Fontconfig is often used
       along with the "Xft" library, which allows applications to render
       fontconfig fonts to the screen with antialiasing. Fontconfig uses more
       human-friendly names like:

       Luxi Sans-10

       Over time, fontconfig/Xft will replace the core X font subsystem. At
       the present time, applications using the Qt 3 or GTK 2 toolkits (which
       would include KDE and GNOME applications) use the fontconfig and Xft
       font subsystem; most everything else uses the core X fonts.

       In the future, Red Hat may support only fontconfig/Xft in place of the
       XFS font server as the default local font access method.

       NOTE: Two exceptions to the font subsystem usage outlined above are
       OpenOffice.org (which uses its own font rendering technology), and
       Mozilla (which uses fontconfig, but not GTK 2).

       If you wish to add new fonts to your Red Hat Linux 9 system,
       you must be aware that the steps necessary depend on which font
       subsystem is to use the new fonts. For the core X font subsystem, you
       must:

       1. Create the /usr/share/fonts/local/ directory (if it doesn't already
       exist):

       mkdir /usr/share/fonts/local/

       If you had to create /usr/share/fonts/local/, you must then add it to
       the X font server (xfs) path:

       chkfontpath --add /usr/share/fonts/local/

       2. Copy the new font file into /usr/share/fonts/local/

       3. Update the font information by issuing the following command:

       ttmkfdir -d /usr/share/fonts/local/ -o
       /usr/share/fonts/local/fonts.scale

       4. Reload the xfs font server using the following command:

       service xfs reload

       Adding new fonts to the fontconfig font subsystem is more
       straightforward; the new font file only needs to be copied into the
       /usr/share/fonts/ directory (individual users can modify their
       personal font configuration by copying the font file into the
       ~/.fonts/ directory).

       After the new font has been copied, use fc-cache to update the font
       information cache:

       fc-cache <directory>

       (Where <directory> would be either the /usr/share/fonts/ or ~/.fonts/
       directories.)

       Individual users may also install fonts graphically, by browsing
       fonts:/// in Nautilus, and dragging the new font files there.

       NOTE: If the font filename ends with ".gz", it has been compressed
       with gzip, and must be decompressed (with the gunzip command) before
       the fontconfig font subsystem can use the font.

     o Due to the transition to the new font system based on fontconfig/Xft,
       GTK+ 1.2 applications are not affected by any changes made via the
       Font Preferences dialog. For these applications, a font can be
       configured by adding the following lines to the file ~/.gtkrc.mine:

       style "user-font" {

       fontset = "<font-specification>"

       }

       widget_class "*" style "user-font"

       (Where <font-specification> represents a font specification in the
       style used by traditional X applications, such as
       "-adobe-helvetica-medium-r-normal--*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*".)

     o New features in XFree86 include:

       - Xcursor - New mouse cursor code, allowing color, antialiased, alpha
       blended (translucency), animated, themeable, multi-size mouse pointers
       to be used.

       - ATI Radeon 9000, 9100, FireGL 8700, 8800 3D/2D/Xv support is now
       available. ATI Radeon 9500 Pro and 9700 Pro, as well as ATI FireGL X1
       and Z1 are now supported 2D-only. Support for over 30 additional ATI
       Rage 128 chipsets have been added to this release, which should cover
       all existing Rage 128 chipsets now.

       - Intel i845, i852, i855, and i865 integrated video support
       (2D/3D/Xvideo), and improved Intel i830 video support. The Intel video
       driver has been completely restructured and largely rewritten to be
       much more robust, and support more hardware. Many bugs have been
       fixed, as well as many workarounds for broken laptop and motherboard
       BIOSs that limit memory to 1Mb.

       - New support for NVIDIA GeForce 4, nForce, GeForce 2 Go, and various
       other NVIDIA hardware. Also, the nv driver has been enhanced to
       attempt to autodetect unknown NVIDIA chips that aren't officially
       supported, but can probably be coaxed to work anyway (albeit not
       officially supported) by treating them similarly to one of the other
       supported chips in the same family. The nv driver, as in previous
       releases, remains 2D only.

       - At the time these release notes were finalized, NVIDIA's binary-only
       accelerated 3D drivers are not currently compatible with Red Hat Linux
       9. NVIDIA is aware of the problem; watch the NVIDIA website
       for updates regarding this situation.

       - Updated Savage driver which supports the newest Savage video
       chipsets, and fixes various bugs.

       - A brand new driver for the National Semiconductor Geode chipset,
       nsc, is provided.

       - Many other video driver updates and improvements have been made.

       - Many new input drivers including fpit, palmax, ur98 and others have
       been added.

     o By default, the Sendmail mail transport agent (MTA) does not accept
       network connections from any host other than the local computer. If
       you want to configure Sendmail as a server for other clients, you must
       edit /etc/mail/sendmail.mc and change the DAEMON_OPTIONS line to also
       listen on network devices (or comment out this option entirely using
       the dnl comment delimiter). You must then regenerate
       /etc/mail/sendmail.cf by running the following command (as root):

       make -C /etc/mail

       Note that you must have the sendmail-cf package installed for this to
       work.

     o CUPS is now the default print spooler, and redhat-config-printer is
       the recommended tool for configuring it. It may be launched from the
       System Settings menu, using the Printing menu entry. LPRng is still
       provided, and upgrades from previous installations using LPRng will
       continue to use it.

     o GNOME Print Manager, a simple graphical print queue management tool,
       is now included. It may be launched from the System Tools menu, using
       the Print Manager menu entry. In addition, when a print job is in the
       queue, an icon will appear in the panel's system notification area.

     o Red Hat Linux 9 includes the Native POSIX Thread Library
       (NPTL), a new implementation of POSIX threads for Linux. This library
       provides performance improvements and increased scalability for i686
       or better processors.

       This thread library is designed to be binary compatible with the old
       LinuxThreads implementation; however, applications that rely on the
       places where the LinuxThreads implementation deviates from the POSIX
       standard will need to be fixed. Notable differences include:

       - Signal handling has changed from per-thread signal handling to POSIX
       process signal handling.

       - getpid() returns the same value in all threads.

       - Thread handlers registered with pthread_atfork are not run if
       vfork() is used - no manager thread

       Applications that are known to have problems using NPTL include:

       - Sun JRE prior to version 1.4.1

       - IBM JRE

       If an application does not work properly with NPTL, it can be run
       using the old LinuxThreads implementation by setting the following
       environment variable:

       LD_ASSUME_KERNEL=<kernel-version>

       The following versions are available:

       - 2.4.1 - Linuxthreads with floating stacks

       - 2.2.5 - Linuxthreads without floating stacks

       NPTL support for all dynamically-linked applications can be disabled
       by using the following boot-time option:

       nosysinfo

     o A new system message has been added to Red Hat Linux 9:

       application bug: <app-name>(<app-pid>) has SIGCHLD set to SIG_IGN but
       calls wait(). (see the NOTES section of 'man 2 wait'). Workaround
       activated.

       This message (which is displayed on the system console and/or in the
       system log files) indicates that the application is not completely
       standards compliant with respect to its handling of child processes.
       If you see this message, you should alert the application's
       developers.

     o Python has been compiled with UCS4 support (Unicode characters
       represented on 4 bytes) as opposed to UCS2. UCS4 allows one to
       represent characters outside of the Basic Multilingual Plane. Certain
       third-party libraries may stop working because of this change;
       recompiling these libraries should be sufficient to resolve the
       problem. Please note that "pure" python modules (whose code is written
       in python) or compiled modules that do not directly use Unicode are
       not affected by this change.

     o The fileutils, textutils, sh-utils, and stat packages have been
       replaced by the newer coreutils package.

     o The RPMs containing the Network Administration Tool have changed names
       and functions. The RPM redhat-config-network contains the tool's
       graphical user interface, while redhat-config-network-tui contains the
       tool itself (along with its text-based user interface).

     o Support for XHTML1 - the reformulation of HTML in XML - has been
       improved. This has been done by adding the xhtml1-dtd package,
       installing the DTDs in the system catalog, and adding native support
       in the libxml2 and xsltproc tools.

     o The redhat-switchmail command and package have been renamed
       redhat-switch-mail. The redhat-switchmail-gnome package has been
       renamed redhat-switch-mail-gnome.

     o The Oprofile system-wide profiler has been added to Red Hat Linux
       9. OProfile is a programmer's tool for analyzing system
       performance, using special hardware built into many modern computers.
       Documentation for OProfile exists in the oprofile package; after
       installing Red Hat Linux 9, issue the command rpm -qd oprofile
       to obtain a listing of the available documentation. See the OProfile
       website at http://oprofile.sourceforge.net for more details.

     o GDB has been enhanced to allow debugging information for applications
       to be read from separate files. This makes it possible to extract
       debugging information from binaries and place them in a supplemental
       package. During the development of Red Hat Linux 9,
       "debuginfo" packages were generated for nearly every package by
       implementing special RPM macros. By default, the RPM macro
       configuration in Red Hat Linux 9 generates "debuginfo"
       packages. If you are building packages and do not want to generate
       "debuginfo" packages, add the following to your ~/.rpmmacros file:

       %define debug_package %{nil}

Package Changes

   The following packages have been added to Red Hat Linux 9:

   - bluez-libs - Libraries for Bluetooth(TM) utility programs

   - bluez-utils - Bluetooth utility programs

   - bogl - Graphics library for framebuffers; used by the Red Hat Linux
   installation program

   - ckermit - Replaces gkermit

   - coreutils - Replaces fileutils, textutils, sh-utils and stat

   - desktop-printing - Drag-and-drop printing and print job icon

   - devlabel - Support for persistent storage device access

   - elfutils - Replaces libelf

   - fontilus - Font viewer for Nautilus

   - fonts-hebrew - Hebrew fonts

   - gnome-icon-theme - Icons for base GNOME environment

   - gnome-themes - Collection of themes for GNOME environment

   - gstreamer - Multimedia framework library

   - gstreamer-plugins - Input and output plugins for gstreamer

   - gthumb - Graphics viewer

   - hpoj - HP OfficeJet support

   - jwhois - Replaces whois

   - libgnomeprint22 - Updated libraries

   - libgnomeprintui22 - Updated libraries

   - libgsf - Library for reading/writing structured files

   - nautilus-cd-burner - CD burning support for Nautilus

   - nautilus-media - Audio playing support for Nautilus

   - openssl096b - Compatibility maintenance package

   - postgresql-odbc - ODBC support for PostgreSQL

   - postgresql72-libs - PostgreSQL 7.2 compatibility libraries

   - printman - Print queue management

   - pyorbit - Replaces orbit-python

   - redhat-config-samba - Samba configuration tool

   - redhat-switch-mail - Renamed from redhat-switchmail

   - soup - SOAP implementation library

   - startup-notification - Support for busy cursor

   - subversion - Version control system

   - tsclient - GUI client for VNS and Windows Terminal Server

   - ttmkfdir - Separated from XFree86

   - vconfig - VLAN (802.1q) configuration program

   - xhtml1-dtds - XHTML1 support

   The following packages have been removed from Red Hat Linux 9:

   - WindowMaker - Developer resource constraints

   - Xft - Integrated into XFree86

   - Xtest - No longer required by Anaconda

   - anonftp - functionality pulled into vsftpd package

   - bdflush - No longer required (needed by 2.2 kernels only)

   - fileutils - Replaced by coreutils

   - fortune-mod - Unclear copyright status

   - gkermit - Replaced by ckermit

   - ipvsadm - No longer part of Red Hat Linux product profile

   - kbdconfig - Replaced by redhat-config-keyboard

   - kernel-uml - Experimental package, removed

   - ksymoops - No longer required by kernel

   - libelf - Replaced by elfutils

   - librpm404 - No longer required compatibility library

   - libxml10 - No longer required compatibility library

   - mouseconfig - Replaced by redhat-config-mouse

   - openldap12 - No longer required compatibility library

   - openssl095a - No longer required compatibility library

   - orbit-python - Replaced by pyorbit

   - php-dbg-base - Not used within distribution

   - php-dbg-client - Not used within distribution

   - php-dbg-server - Not used within distribution

   - redhat-switchmail - Renamed to redhat-switch-mail

   - rhmask - Red Hat no longer distributes rhmask files

   - rpm2html - Deprecated by author

   - sh-utils - Replaced by coreutils

   - stat - Replaced by coreutils

   - textutils - Replaced by coreutils

   - timeconfig - Replaced by redhat-config-date

   - whois - Replaced by jwhois

   - wine - Developer resource constraints

   - wmapm - Part of Windowmaker removal

   - wmclock - Part of Windowmaker removal

   - wmix - Part of Windowmaker removal

   - wu-ftpd - vsftpd is the recommended FTP daemon

   - xtoolwait - Not used within distribution

   The following packages have been deprecated, and may be removed from a
   future release of Red Hat Linux:

   - pine - License-related issues

   - LPRng - CUPS is the recommended printing solution

   - Glide3 - Multi-platform issues

   - lilo - GRUB is the recommended bootloader

   - sndconfig - No longer required by mainstream hardware

   - ncpfs - No longer part of Red Hat Linux product profile

   - mars-nwe - No longer part of Red Hat Linux product profile

Kernel Notes

   This section covers issues that are related to the Red Hat Linux 9
   kernel.

     o Special Note: The ACL support added to the kernel in the first two
       public beta releases proved to be unstable and caused the kernel to
       regress. Red Hat has therefore removed that ACL support from the
       kernel for Red Hat Linux 9. Kernel engineers will continue
       work on improving the ACL support, which will be available in a future
       release. The attr and acl packages needed to support ACLs are still
       included to make it easier for users and developers who wish to test
       ACLs. Red Hat may, at our discretion, provide ACL support for this
       release of Red Hat Linux by means of an upgrade, if future testing
       demonstrates that the ACL support has sufficiently improved in
       quality.

     o The apic boot-time option allowing installation on systems with the
       Intel 440GX chipset has been removed because it caused a conflict with
       many newer systems: it caused SMM (System Management Mode) not to
       function, or to function incorrectly, causing installation on those
       systems to fail. Removing the apic boot-time option enables these
       newer systems to install successfully.

       A different workaround has been provided that allows at least some
       systems with the Intel 440GX chipset to boot; this workaround is
       automatically enabled, and requires no action on your part. If you
       have an Intel 440GX-based system and are unable to install Red Hat
       Linux 9 but a previous release of Red Hat Linux installs
       correctly, please file a bug report, and include the output (running
       on the previous release, of course) of the dmidecode program, run as
       root, with your bug report. Note however, that it will not be possible
       to install Red Hat Linux 9 at all.

       Systems with the 440GX chipset are supported only on a best-effort
       basis. Therefore, we welcome bug reports regarding systems with the
       440GX chipset, but may or may not be able to resolve them.

     o The kernel support for the new NPTL feature changes several internal
       kernel programming interfaces significantly. As a result, several
       external kernel modules may not compile without modifications to match
       the new interfaces. Examples currently include the NVIDIA and ATI 3D
       modules, as well as any other modules that use kernel threads and/or
       signals.
